Talk to Martin the Master Gardener in Draynor Village. (Chat 2•1•✓•1)`
Talk to 5 different gardeners near farming patches around RuneScape. (Use Option Chat 2)`
Easy options include Frizzy, just west of Martin; Elstan, to the north of Frizzy; Alain north of Taverley lodestone; Dantaera, north-west of Catherby lodestone; and Ellena, east of the Catherby lodestone.`
Spirit Tree farmers all count as the same farmer,
farmers in Prifddinas won't work,
Zombie farmer does not work,
Head Farmer Jones in Taverley won't work,
Wyson the gardener in Falador won't work,and then
the fifth farmer you talk to will mention fairies.`
Talk to Martin again. (Chat 2)`
Equip your Dramen Staff and head to the Lumbridge Swamp to enter the Lost City shed.`
Run south (near Chaeldar, the Slayer master), talk to the Fairy Godfather about the Queen. (Chat 2) Make sure to finish the whole dialogue.`
Run west to the bank. Talk to Fairy Nuff a few steps north of the bank.`
Travel to The Dark Wizards' Tower (west of Falador).`
Climb to the top, talk to Zandar Horfyre.`
Player with low combat level should be aware of the aggressive dark wizards. It may be difficult to talk to Zandar.
It is recommended to bring combat gear and space-through the dialogue with Zandar.`
Teleport to Port Sarim and talk to Malignius Mortifer (just north-west of Port Sarim, pictured right) about a Tanglefoot. (Chat 2) or (Chat 1) if Swan Song has been completed.`
Run around to the back, north, of Draynor Manor within the fenced area, and click the gravestone slightly west of the Gallows to dig up a skull.`
Return to Malignius. (Chat 2) or (Chat 1) if Swan Song has been started.`
Fetch the items that Malignius requested (they will be listed in your quest journal). Bring multiple of any edible item, or bring a filled druid pouch to ward off ghasts.`
Make sure to clean any requested herbs.`
Talk to the Nature Spirit in Mort Myre Swamp to receive magic secateurs.`
Return to Zanaris, then enter the shady grove (dungeon icon) west of the Cosmic altar.`
Run through the grove to the large room.`
Equip your magic secateurs and kill Tanglefoot. Off-hand weaponry will work here, but will only deal as much as the secateurs would.`
Take the Queen's secateurs.`
Talk to the Fairy Godfather.`
Quest complete!