Talk to Aster in the Fort Forinthry Town Hall. (Chat 1•1•✓)`
-----Needed: 5 free backpack spaces, Recommended: Combat equipment----
Head east to the rowboat docked next to the Grove cabin.`
Interact with the rowboat to travel to Ungael. (Chat 1)`
You will spawn next to hostile Zamorakian scouts; praying against Ranged can be helpful. This is a safe encounter, and you will respawn outside of the rowboat upon death.`
Run north-west past the scouts and enter the colossal cave.`
Head north-west and approach Vorkath. (Chat 2•2•2•2•1•2)`
Inspect the crystal shard in the backpack.`
Return to the Ungael beach, this time travelling north-east up the hill and interact with the Ruins Entrance to enter.`
Head north, just in front of the Imposing Statue, and interact with the doorway to the south.`
Follow the path south-west and kill the translator.`
Pick up the dropped Zamorakian translator's notes and read them.`
Search the bookcase on the northern wall for Zorgoth's Journal.`
Search the shelves east for a broken focus.`
Inspect the dragonkin mural on the western wall.`
Pick up the congealed potion in the south-eastern corner.`
Listen to the Archivist about all findings. (Chat 1•2•3•4)`
Return to Fort Forinthry and enter the floor hatch east of the Command Centre (south-east).`
Talk to Zemouregal. --- IF YOUR NECROMANCY LEVEL IS 120, YOU CAN SKIP MOST OF THE CONVERSATION (Chat 1•3•4) --- Otherwise, you must follow further dialogue options (Chat 3•1•1•3•4)`
Head to the City of Um and talk to Death. (Chat 1•3)`
Talk to the Tree of Balance, south of the Archaeology Guild. (Chat 1•3)
Needed: Backpack space to excavate two artefacts----Recommended: Archaeology equipment`
Head to Memorial to Guthix (do not enter the Hall of Memories), You can teleport directly there using memory strand or Sixth-Age circuit, otherwise teleport to Eagles' Peak lodestone and run north-west`
South-east outside the memorial, uncover both fertile soil spots`
Excavate both halves of the soul beacon from the uncovered standing stone debris and runic debris. There is a material storage container just north of the spots. Collect both Damaged soul beacon (base) ,and Damaged soul beacon (core).`
Needed: Damaged soul beacon (base), damaged soul beacon (core), 30 white marble (material storage works), 30 white oak (material storage works), and 5 greater ensouled bars, 
Return to the Tree of Balance with the two damaged parts. (Chat 1)`
Head to any archaeologist's workbench to restore the damaged soul beacon. Return to the Tree of Balance with the restored soul beacon. (Chat 1•1•4•1•2•4)`
Needed: Soul beacon and ingredients to perform a soulfarer ritual---- Return to the City of Um and talk to Death. (Chat 1)`
Complete a soulfarer ritual at the Um ritual site.`
Travel to Fort Forinthry and take the boat back to Ungael.`
Needed: Soul beacon and ingredients to perform a soulfarer ritual ---- Recommended: Combat equipment, super restore ----
Return to the colossal cave in Ungael and head north.`
Repair the 13 spots of the ruined ritual site, just east of Vorkath.`
Set up the soulfarer ritual.`
Perform the ritual. A cutscene will begin. (Chat 1) --- Note that this is a safe encounter, and you will respawn outside of the rowboat upon death.`
Perform the ritual again, pausing to: Kill Vengeance whenever she appears. Vengeance can drastically drain your stats so super restores can be useful.
Close any Shadow Rifts as soon as they appear.`
Watch the cutscene. Head west and inspect Vorkath.`
Head to the City of Um and approach Vorkath south of Selene and directly north of the large cave opening in the south of the city.`
Needed: Three empty backpack spaces --- Return to Fort Forinthry and enter the floor hatch east of the Command Centre.`
Talk to Zemouregal.`
Quest Complete!