Talk to Yanni Salika in Shilo Village (north of the bridge). (Chat 2•5•✓)`
Talk to the jungle forester south of the village. You will receive their blunt hatchet. (Chat 4•1)`
Go west to the shore and talk to Captain Shanks nearby the dock where Lady of the Waves is located. (Chat 1)`
Items needed: 3 steel bars, clean harralander, clean marrentill, and vial of water`
Speak to Brian in Port Sarim (Axe shop north-east of the lodestone). Make sure he takes the blunt hatchet before you leave. (Chat 3•2•4)`
Speak to Aggie, the witch in Draynor Village. (Chat 1•3•2)`
Go to the H.A.M. Hideout (north-east of the Lumbridge furnace and west of the Lumbridge cow field). Pick the lock on the old mine entrance, and climb down. Head to the southern cavern and speak to Johanhus Ulsbrecht. (Chat 4•3•2)`
Or if player has completed The Chosen Commander. (Chat 2•4•3•2)`
Talk to Fred the Farmer near the sheep's pen in Lumbridge. (Chat 2)`
Or if player has seen "The Thing". (Chat 3)`
Talk with Seth Groats near the chickens' pen in Lumbridge. (Chat 2) (Back on the east side of the river)`
Take 3 steel bars (cannot be noted) to Horvik in the platebody shop in Varrock (north-east of the central fountain), who is ill and needs a herbal tincture. (Chat 2•3•2)`
Speak to the Apothecary, located in south-west Varrock, at the potion icon. (Chat 1•5•2)`
Or if player has destroyed their Doctor's hat.(Chat 2•5•2)`
Go to Barbarian Village (also called Gunnarsgrunn) and talk to Tassie Slipcast, located in the south-eastern house. (Chat 1)`
Enter the Dwarven Mine and find Hammerspike Stoutbeard in the south west corner. Ask him about Tassie Slipcast. (Chat 4•2)`
Go to Taverley and talk with Sanfew, located in the house slightly south-west of Pikkupstix's Summoning Shop. (Chat 2•2•3•1)`
Or if "Eadgar's Ruse" is completed. (Chat 3•2•3•1)`
Make a Guthix rest by first adding the harralander to the vial of water, then adding the marrentill. Make sure you use the harralander on the vial, instead of clicking the vial, as this may automatically use the marrentill first.`
Travel to White Wolf Mountain, and speak to Captain Bleemadge. (Chat 2•4) Right-click to chat with him.`
Items needed: 14 free inventory spaces, around 2000 coins (or 2+ cut opals, jades and red topazes in case you crush the ones you get)`
Travel to Catherby and speak to Arhein on the docks. (General shop owner, south of the lodestone) (Chat 3•1)`
Go to Seers' Village and speak to Phantuwti Fanstuwi Farsight, south-east of the lodestone. (Chat 4•5•1)`
Enter the Goblin Cave south-east of the fishing guild (teleport to the Ardougne lodestone and run north).`
Sometimes the cave is not marked on the minimap. It is just outside the fence opposite the fishing guild building near the windmill.`
Once inside, head north, then east where you find Petra Fiyed trapped in rock. Right-click on the sculpture and select "Search".`
Go to Ardougne and speak to Wizard Cromperty, located north-east from the market, the house with the blue floor. (Chat 4•2)`
While you are in Ardougne, pick up five pigeon cages from the back yard of the first house south of the north-western bank. There are three cages that will respawn immediately.`
Go to Port Khazard (teleport to Catherby and use a charter to Port Khazard or teleport to the Yanille Lodestone, run east through town then north) and talk to Tindel Marchant on the southern pier. (Chat 2•1)`
While you are here you can also speak to him about identifying swords for an Ardougne achievement (Chat 1•1)`
Go to the Feldip Hills and talk to Rantz, located to the far east of fairy ring AKS. (Chat 1•4)`
Go west until you see Gnormadium Avlafrim and a gnome glider. Talk to him by right-clicking (Chat 4•1) and search each landing light for a gem, cut it, and put it back in the landing lights (from west to east is sapphire, opal, red topaz, jade). If you crush one talk to him again to buy a replacement. (Chat 4•1)`
Talk to the gnome again. (Chat 4)`
Items needed: Armour weapon for Slagilith fight. (Weak to air spells), bronze bar, iron bar, steel bar, empty pot, and 5 pigeon cages`
Go back to Rantz to receive a comfy mattress. (Chat 1)`
Take the mattress to Tindel in Port Khazard, who gives you iron oxide. (Chat 2)`
Take the iron oxide to Wizard Cromperty in Ardougne, who gives you an animate rock scroll. (Chat 4)`
Cast the spell on Petra in the Goblin Cave and kill Slagilith when he appears.`
Cast the spell on Petra again, then talk to her.`
Go to Seers' Village and speak to Phantuwti in his house. (Chat 4•4•2•2•1)`
Access the roof via either the ladder on the north wall of Phantuwti's house, or the ladder in the building to the east (you have to go up two ladders to get to the roof).`
Search the weather vane twice to get three broken vane parts. With a bronze bar, an iron bar, and a steel bar, use each of the the parts of the weather vane on any anvil. Go back to the roof of the house and put the weathervane pillar, the directionals and the ornament back.`
Talk to Phantuwti again and he will give you the weather report. (Chat 4)`
Take the report to Arhein in Catherby. (Chat 3)`
Talk to Captain Bleemadge on the White Wolf Mountain. (Chat 2)`
Talk to Sanfew in Taverley. (Chat 2) ( (Chat 3) If the player has completed "Eadgar's Ruse.")`
Talk to Hammerspike Stoutbeard in the Dwarven Mine. Kill his minions. Talk to him again.`
Talk to Tassie Slipcast in Barbarian Village. Form the Unfired pot lid at Potter's Wheel. Fire the pot lid in the pottery oven, and then use it on a pot to get an airtight pot.`
Go to the apothecary in Varrock and give him the pot. (Chat 1•5)`
Or if player has destroyed their Doctor's hat.(Chat 2•5)`
Go to Horvik (Varrock Platebody Shop) and give him the herbal tincture and breathing salts. (Chat 2•3). Talk to him again with five pigeon cages to get some chicken cages. (Chat 2•3)`
Go to Seth Groats in the farm in Lumbridge and give him the chicken cages.`
Go to the H.A.M. Hideout and talk to Johanhus. (Chat 4)`
Go to Draynor Village and talk with Aggie the witch. (Chat 1)`
Go to Port Sarim and talk with Brian, who gives you a sharpened hatchet. (Chat 3)`
Go back to Shilo Village and speak with the jungle forester, who gives you red mahogany logs in exchange for the hatchet. (Chat 4) (Closest fairy ring: CKR)`
Speak with Yanni in Shilo Village. (Chat 2)` 
Quest complete!