Inspect Evil Dave inside Lumbridge Castle Banquet Hall.`
West of Edgeville's bank, talk to Doris. (Chat 1•1)`
Head into the house's basement.`
Talk to Evil Dave. (Chat 2•3•4)`
Return to Doris. If you miss this step, the hellrats will only drop ashes.`
Head back in the basement, interact with your cat and select "Chase-Vermin". (Chat 2)(Switch off 'Hide Familiar Options' in Gameplay->Combat & Action Bar-> 'Choose Option' Menu)`
As your cat catches the rats, pick up the spices that drop.`
Do so until at least six doses of each of the four spices are collected.`
Make Dave's Evil stew by combining doses of each spice on the stews.`
To find out the stew, use the following:`
This method is sort of like a game of Mastermind. The best strategy is to have lots of stew in the inventory (9 is the maximum players will need, barring mistakes). Have a cat catch hellrats to get spices. Spices can be red, yellow, brown, or orange, and may have from 1 to 4 doses per shaker caught. The perfect stew will have between 1 and 3 doses of each of the four spice colours.`
Figure out each colour separately. Use red as an example: Add one dose of red spice to a stew, and then ask Dave to eat it. If he says that one spice is right, stop and move on to the next colour. It will then be known that one dose of red spice will be needed. If he says that no spices are right, add two doses of red spice to the next stew. If two doses are correct, stop and move on to the next colour.`
If no spices are right, the answer must be three doses. Do not try out three spices, because using this method, players now know red must be three. Move on to another colour—starting with a single dose of that colour—and repeat this process through all four colours.`
After figuring out how much of each colour to put in the stew, use that much of each colour on one stew. This will be the "totally evil!" stew.`
After determining the right combination, have Evil Dave taste it and finish the dialogue.`
Head to Lumbridge and give Evil Dave the stew.`
Subquest complete!