Items recommended: enchanted water tiara, waterskins, or other desert heat protection-
The fastest ways to get to Senliten are: 
Amulet of glory teleport to Al Kharid then use the magic carpet to Uzer and run south, 
Desert amulet 2 teleport to Nardah then run north-east, Desert amulet 4 teleport to Uzer then run south, or
Fairy ring code DLQ then run east`
If you have not already done so, bring Leela to Senliten by talking to her along the fence north of the prison in Draynor Village.`
Enter the pyramid south of Uzer. (Chat 1)`
Speak with Senliten. (Chat 3•3•✓)`
Items needed: rope and a cat, kitten, or hellcat-
Talk to the Sphinx in Sophanem with your cat (do not wear a catspeak amulet or cramulet). (Chat 2•3•3•2)`
Talk to Jex, who is north-east of the Sphinx. (Chat 2•3•1•2•3)`
Return to Senliten. (Chat 3)`
Right click Leela to return to the surface.`
Items needed: dowsing rod, rope, ancestral key-
Items recommended: enchanted water tiara, waterskins, or other desert heat protection----
Enter the temple again but use the explore option. (Chat 2)`
Head north and click the ship to get the dowsing rod (Pick up relic Massive stone boat) to get the dowsing rod.`
Click the dowsing rod and go to the following locations in the desert until your character starts talking before moving to the next location. Closing the arrow interface may cause progress to be lost.`
The oasis right outside the temple. 
The oasis by the Camel Warrior, east of Sophanem. 
The oasis near the Bedabin Camp. (Bandit Camp teleport - may break the puzzle but it didnt for OP Tech, as may using a magic carpet)`
Return to Senliten. (Chat 3)`
Head to the waterfall north of the Dominion Tower and climb up it.`
Walk north through both sets of double doors`
Talk to the spirits (Tirrie, Nirrie, or Hallak) in the north part of the cave. (Chat 1)`
Items needed: charged dowsing rod-
Talk to Portmaster Kags in the Menaphos Port District on the southwest pier by the POH portal. (Chat 2)`
Enter Crondis's pyramid.`
Talk to the High Priest of Crondis.`
Items needed: fishing bait-
Items recommended: enchanted water tiara or other desert heat protection, weight-reducing clothes, food if you fail Agility obstacles or take desert heat damage-
You must wait until after Crondis asks for each item before gathering it or the requirement will not be satisfied. 
Catch a Raw beltfish in the southeast corner of the Menaphos Port District or the VIP Skilling area. 
If using Bait and Switch first catch a beltfish, then obtain it via GE or bank raw.`
Return to Crondis (Chat 1)`
Cut two Acadia logs at the Acadia trees in the Menaphos Imperial District`
Return to Crondis. (Chat 1)`
Collect four Pyramid tops from the Agility Pyramid`
Return to Crondis. (Chat 1)`
Catch eight Plover birds in southern Sophanem. Any sort of double drop will not count for this. It must be 8 catches, not just 8 plover birds. 
Sophanem Slayer Dungeon teleport and run south is the fastest way to get there.`
Return to Crondis. (Chat 1)`
Without TELEPORTING after buying, purchase at least 24 Croc ices from Rokuh in Nardah near the fountain to ensure you still have 16 left to turn in because as you run with them you cannot teleport, one croc ice is consumed automatically every 15 seconds keeping this in mind 
Run west and Nardah magic carpet to Menaphos`
Use the Merchant District Shifting Tombs to get to the Port District and return to Crondis' pyramid.`
They do not need to all be collected in one trip.`
After giving her the 16 Croc ices, get ready for combat`
Items needed: Combat gear and food for fighting Ukunduka`
It is recommended to stock up a full backpack on food or healing potions, as this challenger utilises a special move enabling it to steal your food items, one by one. But, Ukunduka does not treat raw fish, Saradomin brews, or baron sharks as food and will not take these items.`
In addition, Ukunduka will ignore food that has been dropped on the floor, so one could drop all of their food when the fight starts, then pick up and consume as needed.`
The fight with Ukunduka is instanced, and will not warn players if they drop items. When the fight ends, players will be sent back to the non-instanced pyramid without a chance to pick up any dropped items.`
Talk to Crondis. Use any chat option except 1 for all dialogue boxes.`
If not already equipped for combat, leave the conversation just before the player yells "THAT'S ENOUGH!" to prepare for the fight.`
Talk to Crondis again to continue forward to the fight when you return. (Chat 2)`
Kill Ukunduka (stay out of melee distance or use Saradomin brews). There is a safe spot on the stairs leading up to Crondis.`
Talk to the High Priest of Crondis.`
Return to Senliten.`
After the cutscene, speak with Senliten. (Chat 3)`
Quest complete!