Speak to Velorina at Port Phasmatys, in the northernmost building just east of the entrance. (Chat 1•1•✓)
You must have the Ghostspeak amulet equipped
Talk to Necrovarus at the Ectofuntus just outside the town, to the North.
Obtain bucket of slime now for later in quest. Use trap door on west side of the Ectofuntus.
Speak to Velorina. (Chat 1)
Items needed: nettle tea, silk, thread, bucket of milk
Teleport to Canifis using the lodestone.
If you haven't already made nettle tea, pick some nettles just east. Use the nettles on the bowl of water to get Nettle-water.
Run north-west to Netty's house which is on the east side of the Slayer Tower, speak to Netty in her house. (Chat 1)
If you haven't already made nettle tea, run south of Netty's house and cut down a swamp tree for logs. Light a fire and use the Nettle-water on it to get Nettle tea. It is possible to accidentally boil your tea over.
Speak to Netty to get her porcelain cup.
Use your nettle tea on her cup, and add your bucket of milk to it.
Speak to Netty again. (Chat 1)
Repair the model ship with the silk.
Items needed: dyes, combat equipment
Go inside the ship wreck just north of the allotment patches, east of the Canifis lodestone.
Climb the ladders to reach the top deck (there is a ladder on the outer cabin wall).
Wait for the "wind speed" to become "low", search the mast to determine the colours and their positions,(you need to search for 3 different results, take note if needed).
Dye the model ship with the same colours and position as the mast (red and blue dye makes purple dye; red and yellow makes orange; blue and yellow makes green).
Climb down and enter the captain's cabin.
Speak to the old man. (Chat 3)
Use the key on the chest and open it for a map scrap.
Go to the north-west part of the ship's deck and cross the gangplank to the rocks. Jump and cross the rocks until you find a chest, and open it for a map scrap.
Go back to the ship and climb down to the lowest level of the ship, and open a chest in the eastern end of the ship. Kill the giant lobster and search the chest again.
Put the pieces together to get the map and go back to Port Phastmatys.
Items needed: spade (inventory) , treasure map
Speak to the ghost captain on the south-east docks (the one with the smaller boat, not the one directly east of Velorina) to get a ride to Dragontooth Island. Alternatively, use right-click 'Travel'. (Chat 1)
Stand under the Saradomin statue's extended arm (west-adjacent to the statue). Use the "follow" option on the treasure map, or walk the steps below.
The exact location of the book
6 South (Chat 3•3) then (Chat 3•2)
8 East (Chat 2•3) then (Chat 2•3)
2 North (Chat 1•2)
4 East (Chat 2•3)
22 South (Chat 3•4) then (Chat 3•4) then (Chat 3•2)
Dig at the final place you arrive at with a spade to receive the book of haricanto.
Go back to Port Phasmatys with the ghost captain.
Items needed: Oak shieldbow
Speak to Ak-Haranu (who is not a ghost) around the docks. (Chat 1)
Go to the inn and speak to Robin. (Chat 2•1)
Win 4 games of Rune-Draw against him to get a signed oak shield bow. The easiest method is to choose "draw" until one player loses by drawing a death rune and repeating this until you have four wins total.
Speak to Ak-Haranu to get the translation manual.
Ask the Ghost innkeeper (Who is located in the pub) for a job to get a bed sheet. (Chat 4•1)
Don't give it to Robin like he asks.
Use your bucket of slime on the bedsheet or dip it into the pool of slime. Charter ships do not allow bedsheets onto the ships.
Speak to Gravingas west of the inn to get a petition form. (Chat 1)
Put on your Bedsheet.
Ask the townspeople for signatures until you have 10.
You can get multiple signatures from the same ghost if you ask another ghost first.
Some will resist. Just ask others.
If a ghost ask for ecto-tokens, simply leave the conversation and ask the same ghost again.
Speak to Necrovarus at the Ectofuntus. Pick up the bone key he drops.
Head upstairs, and use the key on the locked door.
Open and search the coffin for Necrovarus' mystical robes.
Return to the Netty in her shack (east of the Slayer Tower). (Chat 1)
Equip the enchanted ghostspeak amulet and speak to Necrovarus near the ectofuntus. (Chat 1)
Speak to Velorina in northern Port Phasmatys (at this point you can enter without needing to pay ecto-tokens).
Quest complete!