Needed: Invitation box, 1 free inventory space. 
Open the invitation box to teleport to the Empyrean Citadel. (Chat 1)`
Talk to Moia. (Chat ~•✓•~)`
Talk to Sliske. (Chat 3•~)`
Activate the communication device in your backpack. (Chat 2)`
Continue dialogue with Zamorak. (Chat ~•1•1)`
Talk to Moia. (Chat 4•2•1•1)`
Kill the armoured zombies.`
Go upstairs and talk to Zemouregal or Enakhra. (Chat 1•3)`
Enter the cave entrance north-west of the Kandarin Monastery.`
Board the raft.`
Talk to Hazeel. (Chat 3)`
Go down the trapdoor behind Lord Handelmort's mansion.`
Talk to Jerrod. (Chat 2•3)`
Search the dead butler for a cell key.`
Unlock the cell door.`
Go to the Ruins of Uzer (fairy ring DLQ, then north-east).`
Enter and talk to General Khazard. (Chat 3•1)`
In the shadow realm, search Palkeera's corpse.`
Speak to Khazard.`
Go to the Black Knights' Base in the Taverley Dungeon. Fastest way to get there via the Master archaeologist's outfit to Isaura, an artefact collector in the base. (Chat 0•4), 
via an Archaeology teleport purchased from Ezreal in the Archaeology Guild for 250 chronotes, or 
via a hoardstalker ring or dungeoneering cape (Chat 0•1) and running south.`
Talk to Lord Daquarius in the south-west corner. (Chat 1)`
Talk to the Preaching Black Knight in the middle. (Chat ~)`
Speak to the group of black knights in the north-east corner. (Chat ~)`
Get the poison from the chest in the north-west corner.`
Talk to Lord Daquarius.`
Enter Death's office.`
Continue dialogue with Death and Nomad. (Chat 2•~)`
If ready for combat, accept the teleport to the hideout. (Chat 1)`
Needed: Combat equipment and food if lower levelled go and 
activate the Communication device to return to Zamorak's Hideout. (Chat 2) Then 
Continue the dialogue. (Chat 1•~)`
Teleport to the Barrows 
via Drakan's medallion (Chat 1) or any other preferred method`
Go south-east of the Barrows Brother's mounds (outside the stone wall).`
Enter Sliske's lair (you cannot enter with a familiar summoned).`
From the first room, enter the cave entrances as follows: 
Blue (blue paint above the entrance) (western door)`
5 (V) (on the floor) (south door)- players that use "low detail" may have some trouble seeing the V-shape. You can examine the slabs to be told which number is engraved on it, if it is unclear.`
A sinister green face (northern most door).`
Triangle (north-eastern most door).`
Red (red paint above the door) (south-eastern door).`
Complete face (On the floor) (north-eastern door).`
Grey (may also appear as a white colour; western door in the north-eastern corner) and 
watch a cutscene. (Chat ~)`
Room 1 (Read This Whole Thing) 
Wait for the Wight to face away from you and forward dive behind them to close the gap. Left-click to assassinate them, 
Wait for the masks to scan 3 times, 
Move quickly to the middle of the room and pull the lever, 
Get caught, walk west to room 2 (pull the lever).`
Room 2 (Read This Whole Thing) 
Stand on the right side of the hallway with the shadow and forward dive to the doorway on the east, avoiding the shadow along the way (use the crevices on the sides of the hallway to hide), 
It may be very hard to see the shadow. It is a pulsating black light on the floor, moving up and down the corridor, 
Assassinate the Wight and pull the lever,
Go through the passageway now open at the beginning of the room, forward dive past the Wight, and assassinate them, 
Proceed up the hallway and dive past the last two masks to the lever then 
enter room 3.`
Room 3 (Read This Whole Thing) 
Forward dive behind the Wight to the east and left-click to assassinate them, travel through the pathway in the middle of the two masks and assassinate the Wight to the west, then pull the lever to the south-east. This will open the first gate blocking Jerrod,
Continue to the north and assassinate the next Wight, stand in the doorway and wait for the Wight in the hallway to come to you and assassinate them (watch out for the shadow on the floor),
Quickly dodge past the shadow into the doorway and assassinate the Wight in the north-east room, 
Wait for the shadow to move south and head north of it. Pull the lever on the wall (The shadow does not quite reach the square from which you can pull the lever). This will open the second gate blocking Jerrod`
Go back south of the shadow using the doorway as a safe spot, and approach the crossroads in the middle of the area. The long central hallway has a shadow moving a long path north/south, and a Wight patrolling a shorter path north/south. Cross the hallway when neither are a threat, and wait out of view of the Wight patrolling around the pillar there and 
Assassinate the Wight walking around the pillar. Continue through to the west.`
There are two levers and a Wight in the north-west room. Pull the closest lever, which will cause rocks to drop and attract the Wight to stand in a vulnerable position. Assassinate them, and pull the other lever. This will open the last gate blocking Jerrod. Jerrod will kill the Wight by the exit, 
Make your way to the east side by getting caught or crossing the hallway. Get to the central crossroads, avoid the shadow moving through the central hallway, and assassinate the final patrolling Wight.`
Pull the lever next to the door, 
Once inside, finish the dialogue. (Chat 1)`
You'll be interacting with 3 NPCs in parallel. Read the substeps below for awareness before proceeding. The most important thing to pay attention to during the encounter is keeping the light and shadow levels fairly balanced 
Start by right-clicking track with Jerrod to have him follow the tracks. (Chat 1•2•3)`
An interface is shown at the top of your screen with the light and shadow levels. Over time, their levels will trend in opposite directions. To maintain their balance, simply right-click switch on either Nomad or Enakhra to swap their positions. This will cause the light and dark to trend in the other direction, re-balancing the levels. Keep an eye on the levels throughout the duration of the encounter, swapping Nomad with Enakhra as needed.`
Right-click read mind with Moia in the centre. If she doesn't let you, simply wait a moment - Jerrod has to be in position.`
Mouse around the interface until you find the position such that the probe blinks fast (approximately twice per second), then left-click to probe the memory.`
Look at each of the four passageways on the western and eastern walls. You'll see glowing yellow eyes. Take note of both of their locations, then talk to Zemouregal. In the interface, de-select and select the corresponding positions as it relates where the glowing eyes were.`
Keeping an eye on the light and shadow levels, repeat this process 5 times: track with Jerrod, read mind with Moia, then select the corresponding locations for the glowing eyes with Zemouregal.`
After all 5 memories are retrieved, open the large vault door. 
Watch the cutscene. (Chat ~•~)`
Fight and kill your shadow apparition. 
Run off the platform when teleported to the centre and move out of the path of the smoke. It travels straight down the stairs.`
Stand near the boss when he summons darkness or you will take massive damage. 
Click rapidly to escape cocoons. `
Kill 30 wights around the room. 
Use Nomad's special attacks to kill multiple wights with a single hit.`
Touch the Stone of Jas. (Chat 1) 
Kill everyone's apparition.`
All damage is increased to 10,000 and above, capping at 25,000. 
As such, bleed attacks are helpful here as well as EoC.`
Stop Nomad. (Chat 1•1)
YOU MUST CHOOSE TO STOP HIM, otherwise he becomes powerful in future quests.`
Make sure to watch the final cutscene without skipping; Otherwise, you will need to re-enter the hideout (Chat 3•2•3•2)`
Quest complete!