Enter the mine in the north-east area of Lunar Isle.`
Crawl-through the cave entrance (quest minimap icon).`
Talk to the fallen man (close the interface when it appears). (Chat ✓)`
Feed him 4 food while cycling through your different foods.`
Make sure to start with a food item of which you brought 7 items or you will have run out of variety.`
Talk to him again. (Chat 1•1)`
Feed him 4 more food as before.`
Talk to him and raise his spirit as before`
Repeat until a short cutscene plays and he sits up.`
Feed him 6 more food.`
Talk to him and raise his spirit until he stands up.`
Exit the cave and climb up the ladder 
Or just use the Lunar Isle lodestone`
Talk to 'Bird's-Eye' Jack in the bank. (Chat 2) You will need 1 free inventory space for Cyrisus's chest.`
Select the equipment he needs. The equipment is usually, but not always, dependent on your highest combat stats (Magic, Ranged, Melee). 
Melee: Dragon helm, Abyssal whip, Ahrim's robe top, Ahrim's robe skirt, Ranger boots. 
Ranged: Robin Hood hat, Karil's top, Black dragonhide chaps, Ranger boots or Adamant boots, Magic shortbow. 
Magic: Splitbark helm, Ahrim's robe top, Ahrim's robe skirt, Infinity boots, Ancient staff. 
You can use the NPC Contact spell to ensure you have the right equipment.`
Return and talk to Cyrisus for a cutscene. (Chat 1)`
Right-click "inspect" and fill the remaining stats until he tells you that he is ok (if not already).`
Talk to the Oneiromancer at the astral altar (most south-eastern part of the Lunar Isle) for a dream vial. (Chat 2)`
Change your spellbook as necessary if you wish to use magic in the final fight. 
Fill the vial with water. You can find a sink in the house directly west of the bank on Lunar Isle.`
Use an astral rune on an anvil (there's one on Lunar Isle in a small building to the south), then grind the shards. Add it to the potion.`
Prepare for 4 fights (below level 100). Prayers and emergency teleports won't work. Neither will familiars. 
Light the Ceremonial Brazier in the long hall building, near the lodestone.`
Talk to Cyrisus (dismiss any followers before). (Chat 1)`
Do not click away of the chat or you will be teleported out also
during the fight, you can leave at any time by using the pedestal.`
Kill The Inadequacy, 
Kill The Everlasting (can safespot by the pedestal), 
Kill The Untouchable (can safespot by the pedestal), 
Kill The Illusive`
Return to the Oneiromancer. (Chat 2)`
Quest complete!
